README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<h1>Hi, I'm Muhammad Hassan Farid! 👋</h1>
</div>
 
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=600&size=28&pause=1000&color=000000&center=true&vCenter=true&width=600&lines=Researcher;Data+Scientist;AI+Engineer;Machine+Learning;Deep+Learning;Computer+Vision;Natural+Language+Processing" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>


<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/🎓-Comsats_University_Islamabad-blue?style=for-the-badge" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/📍-Islamabad,_Pakistan-green?style=for-the-badge" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/🔬-Data_Scientist-purple?style=for-the-badge" />
</div>

---

## About Me
A strong interest in research and passionate about advancing the frontiers of AI, Deep Learning, Computer Vision, NLP, Generative AI, LLMs, and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG). I thrive on solving complex problems, building intelligent systems, and conducting impactful research.

## What I Do

- **Research:** Pushing new boundaries in machine learning and AI applications
- **Engineering:** Building data-driven solutions and deploying real-world AI systems
- **Collaboration:** Always open to working with passionate minds on innovative projects
- **Fun fact:** I love turning data into stories that drive decisions!
---

## Featured Publication

**Enhancing Conventional CNNs with Compound Scaling for Brain Tumor Detection in MRI**  
*Muhammad Hassan Farid, Muhammad Adnan Nasim, Muhammad Abdullah Umar, Usman Javed
“Enhancing Conventional CNNs with Compound Scaling for Brain Tumor Detection in MRI” in 41th
Annual Scientific Meeting European Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine and Biology
(ESMRMB 2025) in Marseille, France on 08-11 Oct 2025.*
Presented at the **41st Annual Scientific Meeting European Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine and Biology (ESMRMB 2025)**, Marseille, France (Oct 8–11, 2025).
[Link](https://rdcu.be/eL630)

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack & Tools

<div align="center">

### Programming Languages
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-00599C?style=for-the-badge&logo=cplusplus&logoColor=white)
![SQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)

### Machine Learning & AI
![TensorFlow](https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white)
![Keras](https://img.shields.io/badge/Keras-D00000?style=for-the-badge&logo=keras&logoColor=white)
![Scikit-Learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit--Learn-F7931E?style=for-the-badge&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white)
![OpenCV](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-27338e?style=for-the-badge&logo=OpenCV&logoColor=white)
![LangChain](https://img.shields.io/badge/LangChain-1C3C3C?style=for-the-badge&logo=langchain&logoColor=white)

### Data Analysis & Visualization
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=for-the-badge&logo=pandas&logoColor=white)
![NumPy](https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?style=for-the-badge&logo=numpy&logoColor=white)
![Matplotlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-11557c?style=for-the-badge)
![Seaborn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Seaborn-3776AB?style=for-the-badge)
![Power BI](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerBI-F2C811?style=for-the-badge&logo=powerbi&logoColor=black)

### Development Tools
![Jupyter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?style=for-the-badge&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## 🎯 Areas of Expertise

<table align="center">
<tr>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/artificial-intelligence.png"/>
<br><strong>Machine Learning</strong>
<br>Supervised & Unsupervised Learning
</td>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/brain.png"/>
<br><strong>Deep Learning</strong>
<br>Neural Networks & CNNs
</td>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/camera.png"/>
<br><strong>Computer Vision</strong>
<br>Image Processing & Analysis
</td>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/speech-bubble.png"/>
<br><strong>NLP</strong>
<br>Text Analysis & Processing
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 📊 GitHub Statistics

<div align="center">
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img width="60%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&layout=compact&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
</div>

---

## 🏆 Achievements & Highlights

- 🎓 Completed **BS Computer Science** from Hamdard University Islamabad and pursing **MS in Artificial Intelligence** from Comsats University Islamabad.
- 🧠 **Healthcare AI Researcher** - Developing AI solutions for medical diagnosis
- 📈 **Data Science Enthusiast** - Turning data into actionable insights
- 🔬 **Machine Learning Practitioner** - Building intelligent systems
- 🌟 **Open Source Contributor** - Sharing knowledge with the community
- 🏅 **Kaggle Competitor** - Participating in data science competitions

---

## 🤝 Let's Connect!

<div align="center">
  
[![Kaggle](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kaggle-20BEFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=kaggle&logoColor=white)](https://www.kaggle.com/hassanfarid004)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/Muhammad-Hassan-Farid)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:muhammadhassanfarid@gmail.com)

</div>

---

## 🎨 Current Focus

```python
class MuhammadHassanFarid:
    def __init__(self):
        self.name = "Muhammad Hassan Farid"
        self.role = "Data Scientist & AI Engineer"
        self.location = "Islamabad, Pakistan"
        self.education = "Hamdard University Islamabad"
        
    def current_work(self):
        return [
            "Building AI-powered healthcare solutions",
            "Working on Advance RAG((Retrieval Augmented Generation)"
            "Developing computer vision applications",
            "Creating NLP models for text analysis",
            "Contributing to open-source ML projects"
        ]
    
    def future_goals(self):
        return [
            "Advance in Deep Learning research",
            "Contribute to AI for social good",
            "Build scalable ML systems",
            "Mentor aspiring data scientists"
        ]

hassan = MuhammadHassanFarid()
print("Always learning, always growing! 🚀")
```

---

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&color=blueviolet&style=flat-square&label=Profile+Views" alt="Profile views" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <h3>⭐ If you find my work interesting, please consider giving a star to my repositories! ⭐</h3>
</div>

---

*"Data is the new oil, but like oil, it's valuable only when refined into insights."* 📊✨

Commit message:

Update 'About Me' section in README
Revised the 'About Me' section to better reflect research interests and focus areas.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<h1>Hi, I'm Muhammad Hassan Farid! 👋</h1>
</div>
 
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=600&size=28&pause=1000&color=000000&center=true&vCenter=true&width=600&lines=Researcher;Data+Scientist;AI+Engineer;Machine+Learning;Deep+Learning;Computer+Vision;Natural+Language+Processing" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>


<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/🎓-Comsats_University_Islamabad-blue?style=for-the-badge" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/📍-Islamabad,_Pakistan-green?style=for-the-badge" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/🔬-Data_Scientist-purple?style=for-the-badge" />
</div>

---

## About Me
“AI Researcher with a strong interest for exploring and developing intelligent, human-centered AI solutions. My research area lies at the intersection of Machine Learning, Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing, where I aim to contribute to the advancing AI technologies through innovative research, applied experiments and interdisciplinary collaboration.”

## What I Do

- **Research:** Pushing new boundaries in machine learning and AI applications
- **Engineering:** Building data-driven solutions and deploying real-world AI systems
- **Collaboration:** Always open to working with passionate minds on innovative projects
- **Fun fact:** I love turning data into stories that drive decisions!
---

## Featured Publication

**Enhancing Conventional CNNs with Compound Scaling for Brain Tumor Detection in MRI**  
*Muhammad Hassan Farid, Muhammad Adnan Nasim, Muhammad Abdullah Umar, Usman Javed
“Enhancing Conventional CNNs with Compound Scaling for Brain Tumor Detection in MRI” in 41th
Annual Scientific Meeting European Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine and Biology
(ESMRMB 2025) in Marseille, France on 08-11 Oct 2025.*
Presented at the **41st Annual Scientific Meeting European Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine and Biology (ESMRMB 2025)**, Marseille, France (Oct 8–11, 2025).
[Link](https://rdcu.be/eL630)

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack & Tools

<div align="center">

### Programming Languages
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-00599C?style=for-the-badge&logo=cplusplus&logoColor=white)
![SQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)

### Machine Learning & AI
![TensorFlow](https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white)
![Keras](https://img.shields.io/badge/Keras-D00000?style=for-the-badge&logo=keras&logoColor=white)
![Scikit-Learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit--Learn-F7931E?style=for-the-badge&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white)
![OpenCV](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-27338e?style=for-the-badge&logo=OpenCV&logoColor=white)
![LangChain](https://img.shields.io/badge/LangChain-1C3C3C?style=for-the-badge&logo=langchain&logoColor=white)

### Data Analysis & Visualization
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=for-the-badge&logo=pandas&logoColor=white)
![NumPy](https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?style=for-the-badge&logo=numpy&logoColor=white)
![Matplotlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-11557c?style=for-the-badge)
![Seaborn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Seaborn-3776AB?style=for-the-badge)
![Power BI](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerBI-F2C811?style=for-the-badge&logo=powerbi&logoColor=black)

### Development Tools
![Jupyter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?style=for-the-badge&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## 🎯 Areas of Expertise

<table align="center">
<tr>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/artificial-intelligence.png"/>
<br><strong>Machine Learning</strong>
<br>Supervised & Unsupervised Learning
</td>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/brain.png"/>
<br><strong>Deep Learning</strong>
<br>Neural Networks & CNNs
</td>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/camera.png"/>
<br><strong>Computer Vision</strong>
<br>Image Processing & Analysis
</td>
<td align="center" width="25%">
<img src="https://img.icons8.com/color/96/000000/speech-bubble.png"/>
<br><strong>NLP</strong>
<br>Text Analysis & Processing
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 📊 GitHub Statistics

<div align="center">
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img width="60%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&layout=compact&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
</div>

---

## 🏆 Achievements & Highlights

- 🎓 Completed **BS Computer Science** from Hamdard University Islamabad and pursing **MS in Artificial Intelligence** from Comsats University Islamabad.
- 🧠 **Healthcare AI Researcher** - Developing AI solutions for medical diagnosis
- 📈 **Data Science Enthusiast** - Turning data into actionable insights
- 🔬 **Machine Learning Practitioner** - Building intelligent systems
- 🌟 **Open Source Contributor** - Sharing knowledge with the community
- 🏅 **Kaggle Competitor** - Participating in data science competitions

---

## 🤝 Let's Connect!

<div align="center">
  
[![Kaggle](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kaggle-20BEFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=kaggle&logoColor=white)](https://www.kaggle.com/hassanfarid004)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/Muhammad-Hassan-Farid)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:muhammadhassanfarid@gmail.com)

</div>

---

## 🎨 Current Focus

```python
class MuhammadHassanFarid:
    def __init__(self):
        self.name = "Muhammad Hassan Farid"
        self.role = "Data Scientist & AI Engineer"
        self.location = "Islamabad, Pakistan"
        self.education = "Hamdard University Islamabad"
        
    def current_work(self):
        return [
            "Building AI-powered healthcare solutions",
            "Working on Advance RAG((Retrieval Augmented Generation)"
            "Developing computer vision applications",
            "Creating NLP models for text analysis",
            "Contributing to open-source ML projects"
        ]
    
    def future_goals(self):
        return [
            "Advance in Deep Learning research",
            "Contribute to AI for social good",
            "Build scalable ML systems",
            "Mentor aspiring data scientists"
        ]

hassan = MuhammadHassanFarid()
print("Always learning, always growing! 🚀")
```

---

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=Muhammad-Hassan-Farid&color=blueviolet&style=flat-square&label=Profile+Views" alt="Profile views" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <h3>⭐ If you find my work interesting, please consider giving a star to my repositories! ⭐</h3>
</div>

---

*"Data is the new oil, but like oil, it's valuable only when refined into insights."* 📊✨
